# First Contact

During the boom of Lemmy, June 2023, a huge influx of users left Reddit to try Lemmy while some wanted to help build standalone clients. The removal of applications like [Apollo](https://www.reddit.com/r/apolloapp/), due to the introduction of Reddit API usage costs, lead to a wave of iOS/Android applications. Lemmy came with an easy, open-source backend stack, a testing ground, and a great resume builder as layoffs in the tech-industry were prominent. 

Lots of users found this to be a great way to not only engage with others on a new social platform, but to build together, and enter the open-source world for the first time. The open-source world always found it tough, to induct the next generation and it felt like it was finally happening. It was the first time, I myself at least, saw iOS applications being shared, en masse, ready to go fully available within github repos. 

Even though this was during the second/third ChatGPT hype cycle, it wasn't paid attention to, that much, versus other social networks. But, into July's end, early August one could begin to see patterns in certain threads on Lemmy's network. 

> TODO: Include Screencaps of an LLM enabled conversation

Following this, a lot of other communities, a bit more extremist in views (the term `tankies` began to spread) started to cause havoc in their views. Making a lot of neutral players, who simply loved the platform, to question the risk of association. In how, those voices were magnified may be related to how the GPT patterns started being noticed in prior. Although, the 2 main leads behind the Lemmy infrastructure having Communist related profile pictures didn't help either. But, it was tough to leave a really well-built starter pack for a federated powered backend. Especially one, meant for a Reddit like framework.

With current events unfolding, from Luigi, Salt Typhoon, ransoming American companies, to New Orleans, I am starting to witness a thread. 2023 was a vulnerable year for many (financially and professionally), platforms like Lemmy provided a powerful sense of *belonging*. 2024, capitalized on them further, via twisting *impact/purpose*. If one is careless with who they hang around with, thoughts can get persuaded, bots magnifying numbers furthers the validation cycle (that even smart people fall for). It's very difficult to prove as it was during the cusp of many realizations and most who warned were deemed heretics while being outcasted. With the amount of money backing this front, it was tough to fight or *defend*.

When it comes to known skilled engineers such as Mangione or Wagenius, it is difficult to unmask or trace their anonymous names. There are certain strengths, being brave enough to be on your main account (you prove to be lawful), but it comes with risk as well (judged by the misinformed). Kudos to [Unit 221B](https://www.unit221b.com), I bet they are very busy right now.